Title: Measuring similarities in Reeb Graphs and Contour Trees using Interleaving Distance

Abstract One: Suppose you are an observer of two hilly landscapes. How would you be able to tell if these two landscapes are "similar"? Perhaps we think that the two landscapes are similar if they have peaks in the same places, or connections between peaks at the same height, while we might ignore the fact that individual rocks might be displaced. The Reeb Graph (alternatively the Contour Tree) provides a way to summarize the important topological features of these landscapes. We can viImagine that these two landscapes are now being flooded with water. Both landscapes have peaks and troughs that get submerged over time which makes traveling from one peak to another impossible without traversing water. The Reeb Graph trakcsMathematically, a Reeb Graph is defined as the quotient space where two points are equivalent if they lie on the same level set and within the same connected component. Thankfully, this drastically reduces the amount of data that we computationally need to store while hopefully still containing all necessary information. So, given two Reeb Graphs, what can we say about their landscapes that they emerge from? The interlaving distance provides a rigorous mathematical definition of approximate isomorphisms between these two Reeb Graphs by categorifying them. It also has a nice geometric realization in the actual Reeb Graph, making 


Abstract Two: 

Suppose you are the observer of a singly hilly landscape. If you were asked to determine which features were deemed "important" or "necessary", you might be inclined to point out positions high speaks or low troughs (perhaps even bridges between them) while ignoring the placement of individual rocks on the hillside or specific details of the diameters of the peaks. How can we summarize this "important" information? We can first imagine that the landscape is being flooded with water. As the water level rises, we are able to see that low peaks and bridges become submerged quickly and soon only the highest peaks are left. It might become impossible to move from one peak to another without traversing water. What this allows us to observe is how the connectedness of the landscape changes while ingoring the minute features of the data.

The Reeb Graph is the quotient space where two values are equivalent if they lie on the same level set and are in the same connected component. It contracts each connected component of level sets to single points which ultimately tracks how the connectedness of our flooded landscape changes while ignoring any volumentric data of these peaks. This data structure provides a massive decrease in the amount of information that is stored while still representing the imporant features of the data. Now, given two Reeb Graphs, how can we measure the similarity between these Reeb Graphs in such a way that it gives us information about the similarity between the landscapes that they emerge from? The interleaving distance provedes a rigorous mathematical definition of approximate isomorphisms between these two Reeb Graphs by categorifying them. Thankfuly, the interleaving distance also has a nice geometric realization which can be thought of as the amount of "thickening" of the Reeb Graph needed to be done to create isomorphims.



Abstract Three:

Suppose we measure the temperature of the surface of the Earth over a large region. We can picture this as being some hilly landscape, where a high height corresponds to a high temperature. How can we discern what is the "important" information of the data? A Reeb Graph is defined as the quotient space where two values are equivalent if they lie on the same level set and are in the same connected component. It contracts each connected component of level sets to single points.  which ultimately tracks how the connectedness of our flooded landscape changes while ignoring any volumentric data of these peaks. This data structure provides a massive decrease in the amount of information that is stored while still representing the imporant features of the data. Now, given two Reeb Graphs, how can we measure the similarity between these Reeb Graphs in such a way that it gives us information about the similarity between the landscapes that they emerge from? The interleaving distance provedes a rigorous mathematical definition of approximate isomorphisms between these two Reeb Graphs by categorifying them. Thankfuly, the interleaving distance also has a nice geometric realization which can be thought of as the amount of "thickening" of the Reeb Graph needed to be done to create isomorphims.

Final:

Title: Measuring Similarities in Data using Reeb Graphs and the Interleaving Distance

Abstract: Suppose you are the observer of a single hilly landscape. If you were asked to determine which features were deemed "important" or "necessary", you might be inclined to point out positions of high speaks or low troughs (perhaps even bridges between them) while ignoring the placement of individual rocks on the hillside or specific details of the diameters of the peaks. How can we summarize this "important" information? We can first imagine that the landscape is being flooded with water. As the water level rises, we are able to see that low peaks and bridges become submerged quickly and soon only the highest peaks are left. It might become impossible to move from one peak to another without traversing water. What this allows us to observe is how the connectedness of the landscape changes while ignoring all the minute features.

The Reeb Graph is the quotient space where two values are equivalent if they lie on the same level set and are in the same connected component. It contracts each connected component of level sets to single points which ultimately tracks how the connectedness of our flooded landscape changes while ignoring any volumetric data of these peaks. This data structure provides a massive decrease in the amount of information that is stored while still representing the important features of the data. Now how can we measure the similarity between these Reeb Graphs and what does it tell us about the landscapes that they emerge from? The interleaving distance provides a rigorous mathematical definition of "approximate isomorphisms" between Reeb Graphs by categorifying the structures. Thankfully, the interleaving distance also has a nice geometric realization which can be thought of as the amount of "thickening" of the Reeb Graphs needed to be done to create isomorphisms.